**HOMEWORK TITLE:** HW 5 HEATER PROJECT

**HOMEWORK DESCRIPTION:**

Creates a graphical user interface that displays the temperatures of two thermostats after one is turned up and another is turned down using a heating and a cooling method.

==Requirements for the creation of Heater.java:==

1) Should contain private integers named temperature, min, max, increment.

2) Should have a constructor that takes in the minimum and maximum temperature. The constructor assigns the minimum temperature to the min variable. The constructor assigns the maximum temperature to the max variable. The constructor assigns temperature = 15. The constuctor assigns the increment =5. If the constructor discovers that the min >= max then it should throw an IllegalArgumentException with a meaningful message to the user.

3) Should contain methods for getting the current temperature, setting the increment, cooling the temperature by the increment, warming the temperature by the increment and a method that checks if the fields of two heater objects are identical and this method should be named equals.

==Requirements for the main method for the Heater Application when creating HeaterApplication.java==

1) Create a Scanner and use it to prompt the user for the minimum and maximum temperature for the first heater and use those values to create a new Heater object named heater1.

2) After creating heater1 use heater1's getTemperature method to display to the user what its current temperature is, then call heater1's cooler method followed by heater1's getTemperature method to tell the use what the new temperature is.

3) Use JOptionPane to prompt the user for the minimum and maximum temperature for the first heater and use those values to create a new Heater object named heater2 and display heater2's temperature using heater2's getTemperature method, which after this heater2's warmer method should be called and after that JOptionPane should be used to display heater2's new temperature. After that heater1 and heater2 should be compared to each other using the equals method contained in one the heaters and a message should be displayed to the user as to whether or not the two heaters have identical values stored in them.

All files related to this project are contained in this directory.

**VERSION or DATE:** 06/29/20

**PROBLEMS THAT NEED ADDRESSING:** None

**NOTES:**

This version was upgraded from version 03/13/17. The newer version is able to catch errors generated by the user entering in values that are not integers and ask the user to correct them. In this version a IllegalArgumentException will still be thrown when the minimum heater temperature is not not less than the maximum heater temperature because that is a specific specification from the homework requirements.

**USER INSTRUCTIONS:** 

1) Install Java Development Kit (JDK) if you do not already have Java Development Kit 8 or a latter version allready installed on your computer. For installation help see [Oracle's Java website](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html).

2) Run the following commands in your terminal or command line in the directory containing this README file to run the program and if you need additional help doing this see [How to Compile and Run your First Java Program](https://beginnersbook.com/2013/05/first-java-program/).

javac HeaterApplication.java
java HeaterApplication

**AUTHOR:** Adam Schaible